Monitoring Trends in Burn Severity (MTBS) is an interagency program whose goal
is to consistently map the burn severity and extent of large fires across all
lands of the United States from 1984 to present. This includes all fires 1000
acres or greater in the western United States and 500 acres or greater in the
eastern Unites States. The extent of coverage includes the continental U.S.,
Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto Rico.

The program is conducted by the U.S. Geological Survey Center for Earth
Resources Observation and Science (EROS) and the USDA Forest Service Geospatial
Technology and Applications Center (GTAC). MTBS was first enacted in 2005,
primarily to meet the information needs of the Wildland Fire Leadership Council
(WFLC).  The primary objective at that time was to provide data to the WFLC for
monitoring the effectiveness of the ten-year National Fire Plan. The scope of
the program has grown since inception and provides data to a wide range of
users. These include national policy-makers such as WFLC and others who are
focused on implementing and monitoring national fire management strategies;
field management units such as national forests, parks and other federal and
tribal lands that benefit from the availability of GIS-ready maps and data;
other federal land cover mapping programs such as LANDFIRE which utilizes burn
severity data in their own efforts; and academic and agency research entities
interested in fire severity data over significant geographic and temporal
extents.

MTBS data are freely available to the public and are generated by leveraging
other national programs including the Landsat satellite program, jointly
developed and managed by the USGS and NASA. Landsat data are analyzed through a
standardized and consistent methodology, generating products at a 30 meter
resolution dating back to 1984. One of the greatest strengths of the program is
the consistency of the data products which would be impossible without the
historic Landsat archive, the largest in the world.

You can visit the [MTBS Project Website](https://www.mtbs.gov) for more
information. 

You can also visit the
[MTBS Data Explorer](https://apps.fs.usda.gov/lcms-viewer/mtbs.html)
to learn more and interact with the data.
